---
layout: page
title: About
---


As social network analysis becomes a topic of increasing interest in DH, this is the ideal time to develop a tool that responds to humanistic research needs. First, Fibra will give researchers the ability to create and edit data within the visual interface, and then to export it. The graphical interface for data input and editing shares equal space with an interface for directly typing data. Second, Fibra will reflect [our](hdlab.stanford.edu) latest work on interaction design, providing an environment for humanities researchers to “think through data,” rather than only to act on data. It is an extension of the novel interface design of Palladio, which Jo Guldi described as “what the historian sees when she closes her eyes.” Third, in the current version of Palladio, data can be imported either from a flat file or via SPARQL query (a complex query language for accessing linked data resources). With Fibra, we aim to make it easier for researchers to import open access research collections.  

Just as importantly as tool development, however, we see this as an opportunity to redefine the research possibilities of social network analysis (SNA) for humanities scholars. Where SNA has traditionally focused more on calculations involving edge-data, we view this project as an opportunity to develop new approaches to studying node-data, in particular by drawing on linked data ontologies, and alternating between “node views” (i.e., node groupings or colorings based on different node attributes). With Fibra, we aim both to produce a tool that can offer humanists an alternative to social science tools, and to encourage different methods for researching social networks.